And so through D3 transitions are how
we animate our attributes and
styles on our development from one state,
a state A to the next state, a state B.
And this animation, this transition from
state A to state B, is really important
for us in data visualization to maintain
what we call object constancy so that
we can visually keep track of all of the
updates that are happening on the screen.
All of the updates that are happening
between the first data set,
our old data set to the new data set.
So I actually got an interesting question
from a classroom earlier about how
if you remember when we were
talking about, you know,
original data for
a bar chart with the five integers,
and then we had the new data
array with the eight integers,
and there was a part where
we were talking about how,
the two integers in
the original data had switched and
changed positions in the new data array.
The question was whether D3 keeps track
of that like switch from the original to
this new data array.
And the answer the simple answer is
that D3 does not keep track of that
once we give it.
The new data array D3 kind of just like
forgets about the previous data arrays and
it just concentrates on the new one.
It just kind of calculates,
you know what the differences
are between the old one and the new one.
And it just tell us what we need to do to
get to that new one and then D3 itself,
just kinda work, forgets all about it.
>> But
One interesting place that it does and
can persist,
is with if we decide to put transitions or
animations on this update,
because once we put in
the animations where we're
going to see is very clear and
the bars In the previous state,
the state A,
they're going to be shifting around.
And you're going to see the animation
of them kinda like swapping around
when we go from that original
data array to the new data array.
So from the first kind of state A to state
B so you'll see that animation happen.
So D3 itself has a whole module
dedicated to transitions and
it has a lot of support for and
how the timing of these animations
work and how they ease.
So the easing is like how the animation
kind of like, guess the best way
I can describe it as like how
the animation kinda like bounces and
or we can potentially chain
our animation so we can have
bars do one animation, maybe it fades
in and then like it can we can chain a.
Non of the animation right after and maybe
it slides over or something like that.
So we can chain animations.
And we can even create
custom animations with D3.
So there's a lot of ways to
work with D3 transitions.
Although note if you're trying
to do anything beyond kind of,
transitioning from one state to the next,
the chaining of transitions
does get a little bit
cumbersome in D3 if you're trying
to like chain a lot of animations.
So if you have a lot of animations that
you're trying to do with like, where
you want very specific timing control, I
would actually recommend using Greenstock.
Greensock is an animation platform.
And I find that that one pairs
quite nicely with SVG, and
I use it a lot with D3.
And I would recommend that for if you
want to do really advanced animation,
so use greensock for
very advanced animations.
But certainly D3 is really great for
if you're doing some simple transitions.
For our DOM elements to go
from one place to the next.
And today,
we're going to cover just the simplest but
still quite powerful way to
use these three transitions.
And the way that we do it is and
we first define our transition.
So we call it d3.transition.
And I'm just gonna set a duration of one
second so duration accepts milliseconds.
So, in this case,
I'm passing in 1000 milliseconds and
then we're gonna store
that in this variable t.
So that we can if we have multiple
different selections that we want
to animate then and using this t will make
sure that all of those sinks together.
The other way we're using
is we have a selection,
and we have a we call transition and
we pass in this t into here.
And whatever attributes come
after the start of transition t,
is kind of that state B
that will transition to,
and D3 will kind of rely on
everything after that transition.
To know what attributes or
styles to animate,
and then it will look at
kind of the attributes or
styles that we've set before transition
to figure out if there's a state either
we should be transitioning from.
And if you cannot find any of the like,
corresponding attributes being
set before the dot transition,
it will just default to the SVG elements
or it will use the SVG elements defaults.